ch 5 notes

An object is a collection of properties.

?? To access a property, use dot notation: the
name of the variable containing the object,
then a period, then the name of the property.

?? You can add new properties to an object
at any time, by assigning a value to a new
property name.

?? You can also delete properties from objects,
using the delete operator.

?? Unlike variables that contain primitive
values, like strings, numbers, and booleans,
a variable can’t actually contain an object.
Instead, it contains a reference to an object.
We say that objects are “reference variables”.

?? When you pass an object to a function, the
function gets a copy of the reference to the
object, not a copy of the object itself. So, if
you change the value of one of the object’s
properties, it changes the value in the original
object.

?? Object properties can contain functions.
When a function is in an object, we call it a
method.

?? You call a method by using the dot
notation: the object name, a period, and the
property name of the method, followed by
parentheses.

?? A method is just like a function except that it
is in an object.

?? You can pass arguments to methods, just like
you can to regular functions.

?? When you call an object’s method, the
keyword this refers to the object whose
method you are calling.

?? To access an object’s properties in an
object’s method, you must use dot notation,
with this in place of the object’s name.

?? In object-oriented programming, we think in
terms of objects rather than procedures.

?? An object has both state and behavior. State
can affect behavior, and behavior can affect
state.

?? Objects encapsulate, or hide, the complexity
of the state and behavior in that object.

?? A well-designed object has methods that
abstract the details of how to get work done
with the object, so you don’t have to worry
about it.

?? Along with the objects you create, JavaScript
has many built-in objects that you can use.
We’ll be using many of these built-in objects
throughout the rest of the book.